Jupiter exerts its influence across the
solar system through its gravitational
field
which is by far the most powerful of all
the planets because Jupiter is the most
massive of all the planets it's about
320 times the mass of the earth that's
why he was so destructive in the past
and we see the power of that
gravitational field today in its
influence on the closest of Jupiter's
largest moons IO
io is the most volcanic world in the
solar system
it's surface covered with hundreds of
active volcanoes
at lakes of molten lava
the largest known as Loki Patera is more
than 200 kilometers in diameter
[Music]
a million times the area of any lava
lake on earth
it's surf is tormented by waves of
molten rock
iö is a vision of hell
created by the moon's proximity to
Jupiter
the energy that drives iOS volcanism
doesn't come from heat stored within the
moon it's generated by gravity
because IO orbits just 350,000
kilometers from the tops of Jupiter's
clouds
you